Welcome to Thriller Recapped, Today, I will show
you an American Romantic Thriller film called
“Sleeping with the Enemy”, Spoilers
Ahead, watch out and take care.
The movie starts with Laura Burney, a
charming woman enjoying her time on the beach,
and her husband Martin Burney, a
successful investment counselor in Boston.
They seem like a perfect couple; she is gorgeous,
and he is handsome. They live in his summer house;
Laura is getting ready for a social gathering.
Upon arrival, they don’t spend long enough in the
party and their eyes lock again, they definitely
have a chemistry going on. He then takes her back
to home, he is fond of listening to Berlioz
Symphony Fantastique, which sounds like this
The next day, martin is working out,
maybe last night’s workout wasn’t enough.
He then notices misplaced towels in
the washroom, he then brings Laura
there, and he reminds her not to do the
mistake again. Afraid from consequences,
she then aligns the canned goods in the cabinet
with utmost accuracy, the way martin likes it. She
then tells him about the menu for the supper, and
he then leaves. Later, he meets their neighbour,
the neighbour tells him that his wife is
gorgeous, and he keeps looking at her,
then they talk about sailing, and how much martin
is fond of sailing and passionate about it.
Then the neighbour gives him an invitation
for sailing together but he denies it,
by saying his wife Laura is afraid of water and
she cannot even swim or go near the water. Later,
Martin gets home, and he is not happy that the
neighbour is having pleasure in seeing his wife,
so he starts beating her, and he kicks her.
Strangely he apologizes quickly, and then he
tells her about the invitation from the neighbour
for sailing that week. He assures her that he will
be next to her, and then he leaves while Laura is
in agonizing pain. At this point we can say that,
Martin is an obsessive and controlling person
who has physically and emotionally abused Laura.
Outside, she notices light bulbs,
and she starts taking them down.
Later that night, Martin returns
to home, and he apologizes again,
and he showers her with flowers, then he gives
her a red dress, his favourite color. He then
undresses her and makes her wear that dress;
it seems clear that she is not comfortable
with this treatment, and she does not like it.
Sooner, he forces himself on her, and her face
says everything by now. The next day, they talk
about Laura wanting to do a job in a library,
but she is not allowed to do anything. She
then mentions how she wasn’t even allowed
to visit her mom’s funeral six months ago,
Martin speculates that she is bringing it up,
so they get into an argument and cancel the plan
to sail that night. He then tells her that they’ll
always be together, and nothing can break them
apart, then they get ready to go for sailing.
Later that night, the weather starts getting
severe and the neighbour assures Laura that
nothing will happen, Martin looks at them in a
creepy way. Then the weather gets worse and worse,
Laura seems scared and nervous from her fears
of water. Unexpectedly the boat jib opens up,
and both Martin and the neighbour try to
fix it, but the winds are too harsh. Sooner,
Martin rolls out of the boat and the neighbour
gets him back. However, Laura is missing, and
she fell into the water, Martin starts freaking
out since he knows she cannot swim. After an
extensive Coast Guard search, they find the safety
vest of Laura, suggesting Laura couldn’t survive
the waters. Martin returns home, and he is raging
out and blaming himself for the Loss of his wife.
Few days later, a funeral procession take place,
and Laura is finally gone, a truly sad moment for
Martin, and he is in disbelief. However, in
the flashback, Laura swam through the water,
and she survived the storm, and she says. At this
point, we can say that she had it all planned,
her UNO reverse card was saved till this
moment to save herself from the beginning.
Then she goes back to Martin’s house, she
grabs a bag that she had already prepared,
she then cuts her hair, and out of rage, she
takes her ring out and she dumps it in toilet.
She then leaves the place for good. Laura is in
the bus to Cedar Falls, Iowa. An old lady offers
her some fruit, then they talk a bit, and Laura
reveals that she is going to see her mom, and her
mom is alive, so earlier when she mentioned
that her mom is dead, it was a lie as well.
She then tells her the story about her abusive
husband, and how she was trapped in the house,
and that she faked her own death. She explains
further that she stayed with him for 3 years.
The greyhound bus brings her to Iowa, and she can
be seen smiling again, as if she was just released
from a prison, enjoying the little things, and
embracing the life. She then rents a house as
Sara Waters. Her house rent is 700 dollars,
and she takes it. She then starts organizing
the house and coloring it. She looks at the
sunset and cherishes everything she lost.
She takes a shower, and after the
shower, she misplaces the towels,
as her sign of freedom. A young man, Ben Woodward,
is outside in the lawn. He is her neighbour, and
she smiles while looking at him. Back in Martin’s
house, he walks on the shore, and a broken piece
of the lightbulb gets into his feet. He realizes
that they all have been broken. At Laura’s home,
she goes outside, and she starts collecting apples
from the yard, Ben shows up and tells her that she
can be arrested for stealing. He then says we can
make a deal and she replies, I don’t make deals.
Then he comes back to her, and he brings the
apples, and he apologizes, that he didn’t mean
to scare her. He introduces himself and he tells
her that he is a drama teacher at a local college.
He wants to know her name, but she wants
him to leave. He asks her for a date,
and he leaves. Martin is at work, and he
gets a call from a lady working at YWCA.
She mentions Laura and gives her condolences,
Martin is shocked since Laura never went to YWCA.
The lady then reveals that she came there every
morning to take swimming lessons and she became
a very good swimmer. Upon hearing, that Martin
gets out of control. He then drives back to home,
and he starts going through her belongings
for hours, he gets a cut while going through
the stuff, and he notices the wedding ring she
dumped earlier, which failed to flush in the
toilet. He takes it out and he realizes she
might be alive, and she faked her own death.
Laura goes to Ben’s house with the
apple pie she made from his apples.
He asks her to play some music while they eat
dinner, she says play any music except Berlioz
Symphony Fantastique, the song that Martin used to
play. He found out that she is looking for a job,
and he suggests that he can get her some work, but
she denies it. He then notices a wound on Laura’s
head, he suspects that she had a troubled past.
She then gives him her new name, Sara Waters.
The next day, Martin starts investigating further
about Laura. He goes to a retirement home where
Laura’s mother used to live. After talking a bit,
it is revealed that Laura took her mother out of
there 6 months ago. Ben helps Laura to get a job
in library, he asks her what her real name is?
Since when he calls her name as Sara, she is not
affected. He expresses that he likes her, she
denies it and heartbroken Ben leaves. Later, she
calls her mom from a phonebooth to hear her voice.
Martin hires a private investigator, and he
offers him 20,000 dollars if he finds her.
Few days later, the whole town is celebrating
The Independence Day, Ben notices Laura in the
celebration, he reaches out to her, and they both
are happy to see each other. He apologizes about
the other day, but she says we are good. Then
they talk a bit about their personal lives,
and Laura reveals that she misses her mom,
and she didn’t see her in the last 6 months.
Chloe, mother of Laura is in a nursing home.
Martin located her and he is standing next to her.
Laura is at home, she hears a knock on the
door, and Ben invites her to a special place.
He takes her to a stage, and he showers her
with his love, and he sings a song for her.
They both have a lot of fun, and they both
are clearly in Love. They both start dancing,
they get back to home, and they both start
kissing each other, and almost have a hormone
sandwich on the stairs. She resists and she
pushes him away, and she wants him to leave.
The next day, Ben is sad, and disappointed from
being rejected again and again. Laura goes to him,
and she tells him about her ex-husband that he
was abusive, and she had to escape from him,
he assures her nothing will happen to her. Later,
he helps her in disguising herself as a man,
and then she goes to the nursing home. She goes
to her Blind mother Chloe, and she starts singing
her a lullaby that her mom used to sing for her,
she then reveals to her that she left Martin, and
she tells her about Ben as well. Chloe assures her
to be strong and not to let anyone harm her again.
Martin is in the same nursing home,
and he is inquiring about Laura.
Then he prepares to leave from there and Laura is
drinking water from the fountain, and she leaves.
A lady tells him about the visitor that they
had today, and he runs outside to look for her.
She gets home, and she is filled with joy, and
she jumps in Ben’s arms. Martin goes to Chloe,
posing as a private detective, and he tells her
that Martin is in the town, and they need to find
Laura to warn her. She don’t know where to find
her, but she tells him about Ben and the college
he teaches. He is about to kill her brutally,
but he is interrupted by a nurse, and he leaves.
The next day, he goes to the college, and he
abducts a professor, but he learns it’s not the
right person. Ben is teaching his students in the
college; he then spies on him. Later that night,
he follows them, and he sees Ben and Laura happy,
and he is in shock and jealousy has taken over
his mind. At this point, we can say that if
he can beat his wife, because the neighbour
was looking at her, then what he will do when he
found her kissing a man and faking her own death.
Laura and Ben get back to home,
she is taking a bath and relaxing.
However, she notices the aligned towels and
she jumps out, she then starts checking the
house nervously, after checking the house, she
finds the kitchen towels aligned as well. She
opens the kitchen cabinets, and she is happy
to see it messy, she then walks from there,
and she notices an open window and
Ben is seen walking in the house.
She is clearly scared, then they both have dinner
outside, and he gives her a kiss before leaving.
She goes in the house, and she plays
music, it plays Martin’s favourite song,
she then notices that the closet
is open and fire alarm goes on,
she breaks it because I think pressing
a button would be too hard for hwe.
She then goes to the kitchen cabinets, and she
finds them rearranged to Martin’s exact standards.
She cries and laughs in a disappointing accepting
manner, knowing her fears have come true and her
husband chased her till there. He then shows
up and gives her a kiss, Ben knocks the door,
he then reminds her the time to meet tomorrow.
Soon after closing the door, Ben breaks the door,
and he attacks Martin. However, he overpowers him.
Martin then shows her the wedding ring, then Laura
knees him in his Marbles, making him drop the gun.
She grabs Martin’s gun and holds him at gunpoint.
Martin says that even police won’t be
able to protect her, and he loves her.
She calls the police, by informing them that she
killed an intruder, and then she shoots Martin.
She shoots him three times, and
then he falls to the ground.
Only to wake up as zombie and he tries to shoot
her, but the gun is empty. Martin finally dies
from his wounds, while Laura goes to Ben and they
hug each other, while waiting for the police,
And the movie ends. Please don’t forget to like
& subscribe, it really helps the channel grow.